---
title: Dust
date: 2024-12-24 15:25:00 +0530
categories: [Srimad Bhagavatam]
tags: [krishna, devotee, dust]
---

[CC Antya 16.60](https://vedabase.io/en/library/cc/antya/16/60/)
```
  bhakta-pada-dhūli āra bhakta-pada-jala
  bhakta-bhukta-avaśeṣa, — tina mahā-bala
```
  - The dust of the feet of a devotee, the water that has washed the feet of a devotee, and the remnants of food left by a devotee are three very powerful substances.

[CC Antya 16.61](https://vedabase.io/en/library/cc/antya/16/61/)
```
ei tina-sevā haite kṛṣṇa-premā haya
punaḥ punaḥ sarva-śāstre phukāriyā kaya
```
  - By rendering service to these three, one attains the supreme goal of ecstatic love for Kṛṣṇa. In all the revealed scriptures this is loudly declared again and again.

[SB 7.5.32](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/7/5/32/)
```
  naiṣāṁ matis tāvad urukramāṅghriṁ
  spṛśaty anarthāpagamo yad-arthaḥ
  mahīyasāṁ pāda-rajo-’bhiṣekaṁ
  niṣkiñcanānāṁ na vṛṇīta yāvat
```
  - Unless they smear upon their bodies the dust of the lotus feet of a Vaiṣṇava completely freed from material contamination, persons very much inclined toward materialistic life cannot be attached to the lotus feet of the Lord, who is glorified for His uncommon activities. Only by becoming Kṛṣṇa conscious and taking shelter at the lotus feet of the Lord in this way can one be freed from material contamination.

[SB 5.12.12](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/5/12/12/)
```
  rahūgaṇaitat tapasā na yāti
  na cejyayā nirvapaṇād gṛhād vā
  na cchandasā naiva jalāgni-sūryair
  vinā mahat-pāda-rajo-’bhiṣekam
```
  - My dear King Rahūgaṇa, unless one has the opportunity to smear his entire body with the dust of the lotus feet of great devotees, one cannot realize the Absolute Truth. One cannot realize the Absolute Truth simply by observing celibacy [brahmacarya], strictly following the rules and regulations of householder life, leaving home as a vānaprastha, accepting sannyāsa, or undergoing severe penances in winter by keeping oneself submerged in water or surrounding oneself in summer by fire and the scorching heat of the sun. There are many other processes to understand the Absolute Truth, but the Absolute Truth is only revealed to one who has attained the mercy of a great devotee.
