1. Constant remembrance of Krishna - [CC Madhya 22.113](https://vedabase.io/en/library/cc/madhya/22/113/) (quoted from Padma Purana)
   ```
   smartavyaḥ satataṁ viṣṇur
   vismartavyo na jātucit
   sarve vidhi-niṣedhāḥ syur
   etayor eva kiṅkarāḥ
   ```
   Kṛṣṇa is the origin of Lord Viṣṇu. He should always be remembered and never forgotten at any time. All the rules and prohibitions mentioned in the śāstras should be the servants of these two principles.
2. Hearing Srimad Bhagavatam regularly cleanses the devotee and removes all the anarthas, [SB 2.8.5](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/2/8/5/),
   ```
   praviṣṭaḥ karṇa-randhreṇa
   svānāṁ bhāva-saroruham
   dhunoti śamalaṁ kṛṣṇaḥ
   salilasya yathā śarat
   ```
   The sound incarnation of Lord Kṛṣṇa, the Supreme Soul [i.e., Śrīmad-Bhāgavatam], enters into the heart of a self-realized devotee, sits on the lotus flower of his loving relationship, and thus cleanses the dust of material association, such as lust, anger and hankering. Thus it acts like autumnal rains upon pools of muddy water.
   [SB 1.2.18](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/1/2/18/),
   ```
   naṣṭa-prāyeṣv abhadreṣu
   nityaṁ bhāgavata-sevayā
   bhagavaty uttama-śloke
   bhaktir bhavati naiṣṭhikī
   ```
   By regular attendance in classes on the Bhāgavatam and by rendering of service to the pure devotee, all that is troublesome to the heart is almost completely destroyed, and loving service unto the Personality of Godhead, who is praised with transcendental songs, is established as an irrevocable fact.

3. Benefit of hearing from pure devotees, [SB 4.20.25](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/4/20/25/),
   ```
   sa uttamaśloka mahan-mukha-cyuto
   bhavat-padāmbhoja-sudhā kaṇānilaḥ
   smṛtiṁ punar vismṛta-tattva-vartmanāṁ
   kuyogināṁ no vitaraty alaṁ varaiḥ
   ```
   My dear Lord, You are glorified by the selected verses uttered by great personalities. Such glorification of Your lotus feet is just like saffron particles. When the transcendental vibration from the mouths of great devotees carries the aroma of the saffron dust of Your lotus feet, the forgetful living entity gradually remembers his eternal relationship with You. Devotees thus gradually come to the right conclusion about the value of life. My dear Lord, I therefore do not need any other benediction but the opportunity to hear from the mouth of Your pure devotee.

 4. Glories of the Lord are attractive, relishable and ever fresh, [SB 12.12.50](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/12/12/50/),
    ```
    tad eva ramyaṁ ruciraṁ navaṁ navaṁ
    tad eva śaśvan manaso mahotsavam
    tad eva śokārṇava-śoṣaṇaṁ nṛṇāṁ
    yad uttamaḥśloka-yaśo ’nugīyate
    ```
    Those words describing the glories of the all-famous Personality of Godhead are attractive, relishable and ever fresh. Indeed, such words are a perpetual festival for the mind, and they dry up the ocean of misery.

 5. Benefits of hearing about Krishna's childhood pastimes, [SB 10.7.1-2](https://vedabase.io/en/library/sb/10/7/1-2/),
     - karṇa-ramyāṇi - pleasing to ear
     - manaḥ-jñāni - very attractive to the mind
     - apaiti aratih - destroy apathy
     - apaiti vitṛṣṇā - vanquishes distaste
     - sattvam ca śuddhyati acireṇa - heart becomes purified quickly
     - bhaktiḥ harau - devotional attachment & service to the Lord
     - tat-puruṣe ca sakhyam - attraction to vaisnava association
    
