---
title: vaisnavas
date: 2024-11-05 21:38:00 +0530
categories: [Srimad Bhagavatam]
tags: [sb, vaisnavas]     # TAG names should always be lowercase
---

Glories of Srimad Bhagavatam from Padma Purana
```padau yadiyau prathama dvitiyau 
  tritiya turyau kathitau yad uru 
  nabhis tatha pancama eva sasto 
  bhujantaram dor yugalam tathanyau
  kanthas tu rajan navamo yadiyo mukharavindam
  dasamam praphullam ekadasau yasya lalatha pattam
  siro pi tu dvadasa eva bati```
  The First and Second Cantos of the Bhagavatam are Sri Krsna’s lotus feet. The Third and Fourth Cantos are His thighs. The Fifth Canto is His navel. The Sixth Canto is His chest. The Seventh and Eighth Cantos are His arms. The Ninth Canto is His throat. The Tenth Canto is His beautiful lotus-face. The Eleventh Canto is His forehead. The Twelfth Canto is His head.

```tam adi devam karuna nidhanam 
  tamala varnam suhitavataram 
  apara samsara samudra setum 
  bhajamehe bhagavata svarupam```
  I bow down to that Lord, the ocean of mercy whose colour is like that of a tamala tree and who appears in this world for the welfare of all. I worship Him as the bridge for crossing the unfathomable ocean of material existence. The Bhagavatam has appeared as His very Self.

- SB 12.13.18
  - śrīmad-bhāgavataṁ purāṇam amalaṁ yad vaiṣṇavānāṁ priyaṁ
    yasmin pāramahaṁsyam ekam amalaṁ jñānaṁ paraṁ gīyate
    tatra jñāna-virāga-bhakti-sahitaṁ naiṣkarmyam āviskṛtaṁ
    tac chṛṇvan su-paṭhan vicāraṇa-paro bhaktyā vimucyen naraḥ



- mercy of the devotee, they're always concerned about the welfare of the others and bringing them closer to Krishna. Relevant verses from the scriptures in this regard,
  1. SB 8.7.44 (Lord Shiva drinks the poison generated by churning the milk ocean, in the purport, Srila Prabhupada says, "the supreme welfare activity is the spreading of Krishna consciousness", BG 18.68 - For one who explains this supreme secret to the devotees, pure devotional service is guaranteed, and at the end he will come back to Me.)
   tapyante loka-tāpena
   sādhavaḥ prāyaśo janāḥ
   paramārādhanaṁ tad dhi
   puruṣasyākhilātmanaḥ
  - It is said that great personalities almost always accept voluntary suffering because of the suffering of people in general. This is considered the highest method of worshiping the Supreme Personality of Godhead, who is present in everyone’s heart.
  2.  SB 10.8.4 (Nanda Maharaja tells Garga Muni),
    mahad-vicalanaṁ nṝṇāṁ
    gṛhiṇāṁ dīna-cetasām
    niḥśreyasāya bhagavan
    kalpate nānyathā kvacit
  O my lord, O great devotee, persons like you move from one place to another not for their own interests but for the sake of poor-hearted gṛhasthas [householders]. Otherwise they have no interest in going from one place to another.
  3. CC Adi 9.41, Lord Chaitanya has advised people born in bharata bhumi should do this para upakara,
    bhārata-bhūmite haila manuṣya-janma yāra
    janma sārthaka kari’ kara para-upakāra
  4. SB 1.4.1 purport, Srila Prabhupada talks about personal realization, "Personal realization does not mean that one should, out of vanity, attempt to show one’s own learning by trying to surpass the previous ācārya. He must have full confidence in the previous ācārya, and at the same time he must realize the subject matter so nicely that he can present the matter for the particular circumstances in a suitable manner. The original purpose of the text must be maintained. No obscure meaning should be screwed out of it, yet it should be presented in an interesting manner for the understanding of the audience. This is called realization."

     
  5. Sri Balarama - Adi Guru
    - Real strength will remain from Kṛṣṇa-Balarāma's strength. Balarāma. Balarāma means strength. Nāyam ātmā bala hīna na labhyaḥ. If you are not supported by Balarāma, then it is not possible. So we have got our Balarāma, Kṛṣṇa-Balarāma temple.
    - vidya dadaati vinayam (hitopadesha)
    - Missing in Romaharsana Suuta - SB 10.78.25-26 - adāntasya(for him who is not self-controlled), avinītasya(not humble)
    
  6. Maitreya Muni's humility
    - SB 3.6.36, In spite of my inability, whatever I have been able to hear [from the spiritual master] and whatever I could assimilate I am now describing in glorification of the Lord by pure speech, for otherwise my power of speaking would remain unchaste.

